exam: https://github.itu.dk/maca/DiSys2021_exam

I hereby declare that this submission was created in its entirety by me and only me.
I have recycled structural code from Mini Project 3 - Distributed Systems
½
multiple choice:
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5 Q6 Q7 Q8 Q9 Q10
1  2  3  1  2  1  2  3  2  1

implementation:
is in ./server, ./client/ and ./DistributedHashtable/.

first run the two servers by using the command `go run ./server/main.go` in two terminals then type in 50001 and 50002 respectively when prompted.
then run any number of clients by using the command `go run ./client/main.go` in seperate terminals. 
the clients will then send random requests to the servers.

to test crash you can try stopping one of the processes using ctrl + c to interrupt,
if you interupt a server the client(s) should spit out some warnings but continue with no problems,
if you interupt a client the server might spit out a warning but should continue running.

I do not know if it works on Windows, I have only tested on linux.

implementation discussion:
1.  What system model are you assuming in your implementation. Write a full description:
    I am assuming a system model with only crash failures.
    I won't assume that servers or clients can recover after crashes, a new one would have to be started up and state somehow transferred.
    i will assume an asynchronous network and thus i can not assume any upper bound on latency.

2.  What is the minimal number of nodes in your system to fulfill the requirements? Why?
    I need at least 2 servers otherwise there is no replication and if there is no replication my system can not withstand crash failures.
    if there is 2 or more servers i can tolerate at least 1 failure:
    if a server crashes clients continue comunicating with the replica(s)
    if a client crashes all the other clients can still comunicate with all servers.

3.  Explain how your system recovers from crash failure.
    if a client gets an error when comunicating with one of the servers the server is presumed crashed.
    if a server gets an error when comunicating with one of the clients the client is presumed crashed.
    
    nothing is done(at least programmatically) to recover the crashed server or client.

4.  Explain how you achieve the Property 1 - Repeatable Read.
    since i use a map as the underlying datastructure and it in itself overholds the repeatable read property i just
    have to ensure i always read from the same map or all the maps i could read from are syncronised.
    I do this by making sure to have a lock on all operational servers when calling put, 
    in this way all server states are the same after any put operation.

5.  Explain how you achieve the Property 2 - Initialization to zero.
    I do nothing different, since the underlying datastructure is a map and (in go at least) it will return 0 if the
    key is not in the map by default.

6.  Explain how you achieve the Property 3 - Consistency.
    since get does not change any state it is enough to comunicate with a single server (main or replica) 
    since they are syncronised by the put protocol.

    and as long as we get the lock we can gaurantee that no servers hashtable is changed while we try to get.

7.  Explain how you achieve the Property 4 - Liveness requirement.
    If a request fails the client can just retry but it realy should not happen unless it is the input to the function making 
    the underlying go map fail or both main and replica have crashed. 
    this is because all servers are queried every put and as long as at least one of them answer we do not respond with false. 

8.  Explain how you achieve the Property 5 - Reliability requirement.
    I have at least one server replitating the main servers state through active replitaion, and all of them respond to a request 
    so if one of them don't respond it is presumed crashed and any of the other servers responses are used.
